Testing, one, two, three, four, Lawn Club, Lawn Club, Yale, 21 September, 05.
Talking here with Linda Klein.
Are you, I see here that your title is Intellectual Property and Contracts Manager Counsel?
Yes, I'm a lawyer.
You're a lawyer for the press and also for... Yeah, it's a little bit touchy because the university lawyers, the general counsel's office, are...
ostensibly the lawyers for the whole university.
I'm terribly sorry to interrupt.
I have David on the phone.
So sorry, we forgot.
Can you take me to lunch at 1 o'clock?
Sure.
Will you just tell Sarah that
She's arrived.
Oh, Sarah Clark.
Then I think we'll reschedule her for another time.
Sure.
Where I was.
The university has other lawyers.
Oh, yes, yes.
I am listening.
I'm impressed.
I guess I wasn't.
And they are the lawyers for the whole university.
But there are a lot of us who are people on staff who are lawyers who mess with them and work with them.
in many, many respects.
And how long have you been with the Press?
I've been here for ten years.
Ten years?
It was ten years in July.
So ten years being 1995?
Yeah.
And did you come to this assignment with a publishing background at all?
I had only the slightest publishing background.
I had worked for a publisher right out of college for a while.
Bunting and Lyon, a very small family publishing company, and I was, in effect, an editorial assistant, but sort of, since it was so small, I kind of did a lot of things, including some writing, and I got the publishing bug.
Oh, really?
But, and then I did a lot of other things.
I went to law school, I was a faculty wife here for many years, and raised a child, and then I came here.
So, tell me a little bit, what?
about your role with the press and talking about intellectual property and how that's changing with electronic considerations?
Well, that's all complicated, and it's changing every day from my perspective, which keeps it interesting.
The laws being written as we speak and as people experience things, our biggest new challenges, I guess, are from
various organizations that want to use content and publishers' content, but they particularly want the content from publishers such as the University Press Publishers who have this sort of cutting-edge research in published form, such as Google, such as Amazon.com.
They want to put our books online.
And it's been an evolution as we decide, what does this mean for us?
How is this going to work?
Are people going to just go online and read our books and we won't sell them anymore?
Will people stop buying books?
And that's all, it's all evolving.
As a person who makes it living, as a writer, I'm quite alert to this whole, I'm sure that the contracts
for Yale.
University presses are basically the same kinds of contracts.
Say, I signed with HarperCollins.
I'm the copyright holder of my book.
I own the copyright, but of course, the publisher holds it.
You grant those to us in the contract, and we try to get
you know, as broad a spectrum of rights from an author as we think we can use.
And that means for now, but also down the line.
So we have been trying to acquire electronic rights as we go along.
And the agents we've been dealing with, five years ago, they said, oh, no, we are not giving you any electronic rights.
And now, you know, they don't, people aren't going to buy e-books.
And so the agents don't have a reason to hold on to them.
My concern is...
All my books are still in print, so that's not an issue.
My first book was published in 1995, and it's still very well in paperback.
However, the definition of in print, of course, determines how long a publisher has the rights to print the book, to produce the book.
And what is in print?
So I think there is a change in definition or perception of what in print means.
Absolutely.
You know, if somebody calls and wants to cover your book, and you can push a button and produce one.
Right.
So we don't want to declare our books out of print anymore.
And all of them.
Of course, the author.
I would love to get my first book back from Holtz, because I went backwards now, and I've done three books with them.
You'd reissue it?
I would, because it's my first book, because it's been through 16 printings, and it has 10
No, it's interesting.
But my book was ten years old this August, and I wanted to do a tenth.
It became a little kind of, in the world of the bibliophile and bibliomaniac, there's a book called The Gentle Madness.
It did kind of become, I don't know if I may say, a minor classic of a deal.
Go right ahead.
And I mean, even that phrase that I used for the title, The Gentle Madness, has kind of become a synonym for
And I did a lot of contemporary stories, which, especially my book Thief, who stole $20 million worth of books.
And I just did a court TV thing on him last week, in fact, in producing.
Well, we don't need to hear that.
I'll listen to myself expounding, if you don't mind, talking about this stuff.
So I thought there might be a market for a 10th anniversary edition of this book.
And there probably is.
Oh, I know there is.
I mean, there's 100,000 copies of the first one that are printed, and people collect it for first editions, and they'll go for $200, $250, whatever.
You could Google it right now, and there were only $5,800 in the first printing, and they sold out.
We had three printings in the first month.
Oh, wow.
Yeah, well, they were small printings, as I like to point out, you know, $5,800, $2,500, and
There was, I think the third one was a pretty good size.
There were eight hardcover editions, and they were true editions.
I did textural changes.
The difference between a printing and an edition, as you know, is if you go in and change the types.
But I thought a nice tenth anniversary of what happened to the book thief, what happened to this guy, and it was a big 638.
And Holt said, yeah, it would do fine, but it's doing fine just now the way it is.
Not just lazy.
They didn't even have to pay me, obviously.
I'm just curious, if I may, did they pay you for each edition as you added new material?
No.
There was stuff that I wanted to fix.
There were more than me.
I didn't know.
No, in fact, this is a book that was really kind of an interesting story in publishing.
I was originally under contract to Random House, and I became orphaned by Edgar and left it once someplace else.
And then I went on to be an author with Joe Fox, who was a big editor at Random House.
And then I kind of flushed out that old Joni Evans thing.
You remember when she was fired and the contract that she signed?
I was just tossed out.
And for 13 months, I couldn't find a publisher for that book because it was a big, big book.
And there was this perception that once they terminated it, that there was something wrong with it.
And finally, this guy from Hope, the young man,
who had reviewed books for me years ago.
A Harvard student, you know, took a chance on it.
They gave me $15,000.
You know, this is a book I spent eight years writing, but they could have had it for nothing.
And, you know, it goes on to be a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle Award, get fabulous reviews.
You know, it's been counting hardcover
paperback that's been 20 printings.
It's just one of those great stories where it shows that the New York publishers really don't know as much as they think they know.
Who cares about it, don't come out.
Bibliophiles, I would think, are the one.
But they do get credit for taking a chance on the New York course.
And they published it beautifully.
The Hope finally did.
They published it, and they published it.
They didn't just publish it, they published it.
Once they read it in the house,
They loved it.
They really did.
So if I were on staff at Holt, I'd be arguing with you about letting you have it back.
Oh, I haven't pushed it.
No, I haven't.
I would like, no, I haven't even asked my agent.
But you should make them, you know, a big proposal for the 10th.
It's gone.
The 10th is here and gone.
The 10th is last month.
Call it the 10th.
Call it the 10th next year.
I have a book coming out in November from Harper, so I'm more focused on that right now and how that
comes out, this is something I was thinking about a year ago.
And another thing they did, and then we'll quit, if you don't mind.
A lawyer's a preferred person to talk about this.
And then everybody left at Hope, by the way.
My editor left, and the editor, once they get brought out by this German firm, I mean, it just went to hell.
Bertelsmann.
And then Michael Norman came in and this kind of
The place hemorrhaged money, and it just became a lousy place to be, at which point then I was orphaned twice there, and then I left to go to Harper's, where I've been happily for the last three books.
So I think I'd like to have all my books in one place, where they could publish them in uniform, kind of, they could promote them better.
And then they've really got a very cheap paperback.
The first paperback that came out was lovely.
I mean, the hardcover was a $35 book, and they made a fortune on that book, because they only expected to sell 5,000.
They wound up selling 40,000 copies of them.
Please, 35 bucks every time they sold, they're making a fortune on it.
I did fine, too.
I'm not kidding.
I'm sorry?
You have a list of royalties.
Oh, yes, absolutely.
Oh, my royalties were fine.
I still did.
I mean, I'm still getting royalties.
Good.
Twice a year on it, so.
We all need to talk about this.
Well, I'm interested because I very seldom talk about it.
I think we'll go back on again.
You know, I think that was running the whole time.
I'm going to kill myself when I start listening to this.
Fast forward.
Tell me...
You are of publishing, but you're not of publishing.
Is that a fair assessment?
I mean, you're in publishing, but... Well, I'm not a publisher.
I don't have the publishers.
Do you have an interesting vantage point, don't you think?
Well, yeah, I suppose so.
I work with the acquiring editors, and they tell me what it is they're doing.
I mean, we have templates and all of that, and a lot of our contracts are simple enough, but fewer and fewer of them.
And then I help them decide and structure the agreement in a way that works best for our management goals and the press goals.
Now, do you have many books that have to be read, vetted for a possible rival, and that doesn't happen yet?
Surprisingly, not many.
I mean, our authors are, of course, bound contractually to warrant, again,
you know, all sorts of content that shouldn't be there.
That still doesn't protect you in a suit, though.
Well, we have a good insurance policy, too, through Yale, thank goodness.
And I had a guy who was going to come after me for $16 million in that first book.
Of course, it helped that I was right, you know.
Yeah, it always helped to be right.
But it doesn't protect you from an interest.
But I still waited for the Statue of Limitations to come up.
You know, they were just two years in New York.
Uh-huh.
That's a whole other story.
That was a great story.
Anyway.
We've been sued a few times, and before I came, actually, and, well, maybe once since then, but it wasn't anything that I had anything to do with, thank goodness.
But people have infringed our copyrights, and we have libeled other people, and, I mean, that one time, really, that was a really serious gaffe.
Yale has libeled people?
Well, one of the books we published.
Really?
Can you tell me about that?
Well, I don't know very much about it, but I know that the author likened someone to Hitler.
Who?
Somebody living?
Yeah.
Stupid.
No, no.
How did that get through?
I don't know, and the manuscript editor who was on the job apparently caught it.
And I don't know, I've heard differing stories.
I heard that she brought it to people's attention and they said, oh, it's not significant.
I find that very hard to believe.
But what I also heard from the management here was that she saw it and wondered about it and then just passed over it for it.
And unfortunately, it was one of our London books, I think.
And of course, it's easier to sue.
It's easier to win in England.
Oh, sure.
It wasn't just a suit over the hill.
They sued.
The book wasn't even published in England, and the writer was some... You see, I can't take judgment in England.
The book wasn't even... Wow.
I don't know.
How in the world could they get jurisdiction on this?
It was extraordinary how they do it.
I wonder.
I wonder if it has to do with the online booksellers, because territories mean very little these days.
I don't know.
My book was a bestseller in Amsterdam, and it was a full-page review in Dutch that I couldn't read.
My last book had a full page in TLS.
But again, it's Amazon and Barnes and Noble.
There are no borders anymore.
Exactly.
And your book isn't published any good?
No.
I'm surprised.
I'm surprised, too.
I mean, I would think your first book would have great.
It's too big.
The rap against my first couple of books was that they were scared by the size of it.
But we sold Chinese and Korean editions.
Well, they're not scared by work.
They're not scared by work, and they don't pay much.
Right.
Minimal.
That's true.
Well, unfortunately, the man who was libeled was a British citizen, I believe, and he brought suit immediately, I guess, and he won to handle it.
He won, so it went to court.
Oh, yeah.
Well, I think we did settle off.
It was a big settlement for Yale.
Yeah.
I'm shocked that something like that was by editors.
Do you think that Don't Worry is about manuscripts yet?
Occasionally, people will, you know, an author will ask for it.
Occasionally, an editor will say, I'm a little concerned about this.
And I read them sometimes.
I give them to the general counsel's office sometimes.
And, you know, we cross our fingers because you want to be able to tell the truth.
Sure.
Have you noticed, I mean, this is what makes this press very interesting to me.
I've written five books on book culture, and this is my first book on publishing for a second.
And, you know, this wonderful university press, I think the finest, without question in the United States.
Well, we modestly like to think so.
It's true.
I mean, and you just have that nice balance.
between Richard's scholarship on the one hand and the very firm business sense on the other.
There's an operation that operates in the black.
And for several years, it's been extraordinary.
I mean, I don't know if there are any other American presses that can make that claim.
Maybe Oxford Press, which has a New York division.
But they have such a huge back list of things.
They have a huge back list.
And they might as well be a trade house.
Yeah.
Well, they are.
For all practical purposes, they are.
Yeah, for all practical purposes.
But it is amazing that Yale is able to kind of walk this fine line between the two worlds.
And I wonder, have you seen, you've been here ten years, that's kind of an interesting ten years.
Oh, absolutely.
And I wonder what kind of changes you've seen over here.
Well, library fields fell off radically during my tenure here.
And those were the bread and butter for the, you know, for the,
The books that nobody expects to sell well, the monographs.
We expected them to sell to the library.
The average person isn't going to go out and buy them.
Sure, especially being as expensive as they are.
And it was always an automatic sale.
Exactly.
About 5,000, 6,000 copies sell like that.
Now, maybe if you're lucky, it's two.
A lot of our books have maybe 500 to 2,000.
And I was told, I don't know this for an absolute fact, but I was told that in 91 or 92, the press had 10 books, maybe, that sold more than 4,000 copies a year.
Really?
Yeah.
Maybe 10.
And what year again?
91, 92.
91 and 92, perhaps.
Do that again?
had 10 books that sold as many as 4,000 copies a year.
And everything else sold fewer copies.
10,000?
Yeah.
And so the rest fewer.
No, 4,000.
10 books that sold 4,000 or more.
Wow.
That was pretty much the rule up until that point, more or less.
That's what I mean.
Well, I'll check it out for this.
Yeah, please do check it out.
Because I'm not good with numbers.
I'm a word for it.
No, what I need here is the tips and directions to pursue.
Well, people set to work to find books that would have more general interest, and I think we turned our focus somewhat to books that were
more accessible to the reading, the educated reader, in part to support those books that needed to be published, that we still need to publish to fulfill our mission.
That's great.
So I wonder what it is now.
How many books have worked out?
People can tell you.
I mean, people took the numbers.
I'm curious.
I mean, we sell, we publish a lot of books that sell between 5,000 and 10,000, I think.
And then we've also, we've had a few just astounding successes.
The biggest all-time success is Long Day's Journey Into Night.
Yeah, that's going to be maybe just a whole study.
Ah, that's such a fascinating...
I had lunch yesterday, just coincidentally that I'm talking to you now.
I had lunch yesterday with the 92-year-old lawyer for the O'Neill estate.
Really?
Yeah.
What's that person's name?
Herbert Jacoby.
Is he here in New Haven?
He's in New York.
Jacoby?
J-A-C-O-B-Y.
He's a wonderful man.
He's doing work, right?
Oh, yes.
I hope I'm half that alert.
Anywhere near his age.
And so does he have clear recollections of all of this?
Did he represent Carlotta, or did he represent the university?
He represented, originally, he represented Charlie Chaplin.
Wow.
Yeah.
And he inherited, he never met Carlotta, but he inherited some of Carlotta's dealings, of course.
But he represents the children, who are both dead now, but Shane and Una.
Oh, yeah.
And he'd probably be delighted to.
I would guess he would.
Kermit Jacoby?
Jacoby, yeah.
Jacoby?
Yeah.
And Derek Jacoby.
Right, right.
I know.
I called him Jacoby, too, until I met him.
Yeah.
And I have his contact information.
Do you?
Yeah.
But just yesterday, John Kalka went around.
Would you be interested in sharing it with me?
Oh, of course.
Do you want to right now?
Actually... Maybe how about I email you and you answer me with an email.
Yes, and that's a better way because I left my papers... That's fine, and that way you'll have my email address.
Good.
I left my papers with Susan Sawyer, the Deputy General Counsel, who went with us.
That way you can chat around to see if there's any problem with that.
I don't want to... But he might...
Oh, I would think he would.
I just kind of like to know the dynamic that pushed this, because John Brighton was telling me that Bennett Seraph had agreed not to publish a reel.
Yeah.
I asked Herb about that over lunch, and we were sitting, there were four of us, and he and I were sitting this way, catecholing from each other, and his hearing is so severely impacted.
And it was late in the lunch.
And he didn't respond.
I don't know if he was tired, if he didn't hear me, or if he didn't want to talk about it.
And I couldn't tell.
But, you know, my father, who just died at the age of 91, wanted to hear something.
When he chose not to want to discuss something, he didn't hear it.
It was a very useful device.
Yes.
It's a lot of things that you don't want to talk about.
I don't think in Herb's case that's what was going on.
I mean, he kept turning it up and turning it down, and he was struggling.
We picked a quiet restaurant and sat way back in the corner, and even so.
So what was, if I may ask, what was the purpose of this get-together?
Was it just a professional courtesy technical thing?
No, we're still trying to acquire some rights, some O'Neill rights.
Really?
Yeah.
So there is relevance here then.
Oh, yeah.
What kinds of stuff?
Well, to several of his plays that have been published elsewhere.
And he's still around.
He's still around with us.
This goes back to the 1950s, isn't it, this particular story?
Oh, yeah.
That's a great story.
He said, I've outlived all my clients.
That was wonderful.
He's on now to Una and Shane's children.
That's great.
That's terrific.
So how have you seen things change, I think I asked today?
You mentioned the 4,000 books, but is it largely in the direction that the press has taken it to be more competitive, shall we say, more muscular and more appealing?
Well, I think we've struggled to find our niche in publishing because, you know, we're not going to be a Random House or a Norton.
That's a good sound bite, by the way.
Are you always looking for the good quotes?
A full quote.
That's a full quote, right?
You can see how I think, right?
Sure.
Let me think.
I interrupted the good quote.
We've always struggled to find out if we should never be a random house in Norton.
And we can't survive as the sleepy little university friends.
And I don't know how the rest of them are doing it.
I honestly don't.
Except a lot of them are supported by their university.
Right, but one would think that this university might be willing to support it.
But that's not how you're laughing.
Let the tape show.
That observation of mine was not met with an answer, merely laughter.
Please don't quote me.
No, no, great.
On that laughter.
You're not alone on that.
There's no...
Everybody has the same loose minds.
This press has to earn its supper.
Well, that is pretty much everybody around this institution, I think.
It's astounding.
Somebody said to me, on a very different subject, but related to the university, the only thing that amazes me more than what the university will buy is what they won't buy.
And he was talking about things, you know,
support their staff.
So you don't have the, as this is not for my use, but you don't have the endowment that, say, at Harvard.
We have a huge endowment.
We don't have the one that Harvard does.
So what's the problem here?
I don't understand it.
You tell me.
You know, I mean, you go to Harvard, you think you're at, I've never been to the business school.
I went to a meeting over there.
I thought I was at Disney World or something.
I mean, it's amazing.
Really?
I was looking for the right word, but just,
Whatever they want there, they can get.
It's amazing.
I mean, I know librarians who come from one place and go there, and it's never a question as to whether or not we can afford it.
You know, let's say a rare book or something.
You mean to the university library or to the business school library?
The business school library being one of them.
I mean, there are a hundred libraries.
But I'm surprised that they're that way.
I would be surprised if they're that way with all their libraries.
They're marquee libraries, like the Houghton Library.
If the funding is not immediately forthcoming from available funds, there are friends who are always there.
Well, Yale has a ton of friends.
Where are they?
They're out there, and they're just, you know, the money that, well, this is all completely my opinion, but, I mean, I've been connected with Yale since I came in 69.
Oh, really?
And I worked in the graduate school for a while.
So you've been here for a good while.
I've been here in one fashion or another.
I married a faculty member.
Well, we were together since 1971, and we only divorced early this year.
And he was on the Publications Committee for many years, so I was connected with the press in that way, and I was at the 75th anniversary celebration here.
What else was I going to say about that, though?
Something about the university.
What about money and friends?
No, my connection with him.
Your connections?
You've been here since.
Well, I've just had a more paid relationship with the university.
Oh, and he was a master.
We were a college master team for half a year, too.
So, we've had a lot of, you know, connection with the university in a lot of different ways.
And it's a wonderful place to be.
It's a horrible place to be in some ways.
I mean, I've always, I've been reviewing Yale books for 30 years.
I was a book review editor, and I still do freelance things, and my newspapers don't take.
So I follow Yale, and I've always, I mean, the art books here are totally in a class by the way.
And they just keep getting better and better.
Not only are they beautiful and magnificently produced, but the content is,
Yeah.
Impeccable.
You would have learned something.
It's not just a pretty book and year after year.
It's not just one, it's a half a dozen or ten each list.
And you say, well, how do they do it?
And of course, a lot of the success of the press, I think, I haven't heard the phrase Cash Powell used.
I don't like it myself, but it has enabled a lot of the other things that the press does.
Well, those had tapered off, too, though.
The art book sales had tapered off, too.
And we have new oomph there with our wonderful art editor, Patricia Fidler, who was just our best acquisition for a long time, I think.
a few years ago.
No, she's in the UK or she's here?
No, she's here.
I mean, we have some wonderful people in the UK acquiring an art, too, but Patricia is... How do you spell her last name?
F-I-D-L-E-R.
And we wooed her away from Princeton.
I've heard about her.
And she's a ten-person dynamo all wrapped up into one.
I know one thing I was saying a little while ago.
You asked how things have changed.
have had only a few really huge commercial successes, but they have helped carry us over.
And one was The Long Day's Journey.
That's 50 years ago.
It's still selling wonderfully well.
John Culka brought it out again in a new edition a couple years ago, and it's, you know, got a whole new life, but it's a great jacket, great jacket.
Didn't the Library of America do all of the audio's play?
Yeah.
So, is that edition used there, and the Library of America edition won't it?
I think they have their own.
The text?
Well, the text, yes, I'm sure.
The text must come from here, so they have to negotiate.
They did.
They did, years ago.
I mean, there's an old contract.
Yeah, there's an old contract with them.
But, no, I mean, we just brought out a new paperback a few years ago.
fabulous new jacket done by my dear friend in book design upstairs.
And if you haven't seen it, you should.
It's got a whiskey glass on the front there.
Really?
It's just so perfect.
I wonder what that sells.
That's still pretty... Well, I could tell you.
Just be curious.
I'm going to take a couple pictures of you, too, if you don't mind.
And then we had the success with the Taliban.
I'm sure you heard about that.
John told me about that, but that's the next picture.
That was a big surprise.
Well, that was, you know, one of those things where you're just lucky to be where you are.
Yeah.
Well, our history and religion editor, Chuck Grinch, bought that from a U.K.
publisher for it.
Yeah, but when that whole Taliban thing breaks... And then, you know, they hit the building.
This is the only credible book out there, right?
They hit the building, and... Well, was that the Taliban?
Not the Taliban.
When they hit the buildings, that was Al-Qaeda.
Was it an Al-Qaeda book or a Taliban book?
It was a Taliban book, but people became interested in it because of that.
That's right, because the Taliban was hiding Al-Qaeda.
That's exactly right.
The problem is it's divided into four entries here because we've had two cross-band and two paper-band editions.
And so if I'm going to tally these up, I have to open every single one of these.
No, but just like, you know, one number.
American Eros, not like that.
It looks like pink slips.
That's very good, too.
Yeah.
Don't worry about it.
If it was immediately available.
I'll find this out.
One more.
It's very interesting.
Why wouldn't they have our biggest book sales in here?
That's fascinating.
They're not in there.
The accounting department can tell you, but I know as of
four years ago or something like that.
It was 1.3 million already, I think, or something like that, which for us is huge.
And that's not your greatest selling book of all time, by the way.
Yes, it is.
I don't think so.
Well, what is?
You'd be amazed.
It's very early artists.
You're not going to believe this.
Go back.
I'm going to shut this off.
sold, let's see, in New Haven, $74,150.
And that was one year?
No, that's since 2002.
Since 2002?
Yeah, it came out in 2002.
I don't have the pub date here.
But that has earned almost half a million dollars, Joe, just that idea.
Wow.
And that's only that one.
No wonder the family still has an attorney monitoring this thing.
Well, let's see what his cloth-bound sold is since the 1950 edition.
That's when it first came out.
This is the world's lowest database.
Tragic-crazy, isn't it?
And then the first cloth-bound, it looks like, oh,
That hardly seems possible.
Under 2000?
No, it can't be.
But that may have been only short live edition, and then they brought out the next one.
That's what's hard to tell from there.
I mean, that book on a Pulitzer, it was almost an instantaneous success, I think, wasn't it?
Oh, yeah, I think so.
And they produced it, and it just did everything.
I would love to know the inside story to that.
Now, let me see.
Here's the... Here's the 1962 edition, and that sold 230-some thousand units.
Jeez.
And that's been OP since God knows when.
Ages.
Wow.
So what I need is a complete window.
Oh, I was going to say I'd love to know how it happens.
that Carlotta went to Bennett Cerf and said, give that to me.
There's a young woman who's doing some work with Janice, and I've told her, this is what I really want her, just look at whatever correspondence that they have over there, just kind of document.
In the archives.
Yeah.
Oh, Chester Kerr's stuff would be fascinating, I'm sure.
What a character.
Oh, gosh.
And after I've done my, the number I've set for myself is 20 interviews.
Mm-hmm.
But when I've done my 20th, then I'm just going to start listening to it, but really now, then I'm going to start coming down and going through the archives and actually start kind of writing in a very perceptual way, but then really going in to get precisely the kinds of things we're talking about, you know, the Chester.
Because he would have been the one that handled those.
He's the one she brought it to.
Yeah, and those are the days when people actually wrote letters.
Oh, he's got fabulous letters.
He's got fabulous letters.
I've read some of them, and the letters between him and Bennett serve.
I mean, I don't think they ever ... It's a wonder they didn't burn up.
So ... Really?
Those are all over in that Beinecke of Sterling thing.
They've given me a letter I have access to.
Yeah, I think they're all in sterling in manuscripts and archives, but there are even a few in the files here which are actively scanning.
No, I think some of them are original.
Here, scanning them just for archival purposes?
This young woman out here is scanning all of our contracts, and she's scanning whatever correspondence is in the files.
And there's not a lot of correspondence in the standard contract files, but in our series and in some of these
big publications filed.
So that would be an interesting little thing, that the correspondents would go as big as Serf, of course, was keeping his word to O'Neill.
And Chester had no such... Chester seemed to have no problem with it.
Well, I mean, but he didn't... He wasn't part of the... He wasn't part of it.
Yeah.
And what a great service he did.
I mean, you know, when Kafka died, he ordered his friend, Max Bride, to destroy everything.
You know, thankfully Max didn't.
I mean, the dead really don't have that many rights.
They terminate pretty well.
If you want it to be destroyed, destroy it yourself.
Otherwise, once you're gone, don't expect somebody else to do it for you.
That would seem to be my approach to it.
Thank goodness he did it.
But it's a fabulous story, and I think that that would almost be a metaphor for a lot of different things.
expression of the University Press going big time on the commercial.
Mm-hmm.
And we didn't publish fiction.
And in walks this play, and it's been our cash cow.
Jeez, this is so good.
See?
This is good.
But we are trying now to get rights.
to a lot of things that Random House has been publishing, you know, and O'Neill things that Random House has been publishing.
And that's what that was about yesterday.
That's great.
I mean, John's my editor on this, so nobody's going to be surprised.
But I mean, that's a great quote.
And we didn't publish fiction in Amlox's cash card.
That's a great quote.
Can you just see how beautiful that quote is?
You can quote me on that one.
Yeah, this is fun.
People saying, you really want to do a piece of university press, you know?
Oh, God.
I said, this is going to be fun.
The people here, I mean, they're incredible people now.
And I knew some of the, you know, some of the ones from years back, too.
Just the most amazingly wonderful and interesting people.
Even, you know, right now, not to mention over the past hundred years, and I think that what you really have right now is a core of
really terrific professionals in their own specialty areas.
Fantastic.
This is not a second team, say, to what you might find at Knopf.
No.
Oh, no, no, no.
It's a different team.
Very dedicated people, because we're not doing it for the large salaries.
That would be.
Yeah, don't put that in the book.
I hope you're talking to
Maureen Newman?
Yeah, she is.
She's a production, the head of production, well, not head of production.
There is a production head, Chris Coffin, but Maureen has been handling production here for many, many years, and she's fabulous.
Tons of personality, and she knows where a lot of bodies are buried.
Ooh, like that, yeah.
Yeah, and she doesn't put a nice
face on things, either.
I mean, I think she cuts right to them.
So she'd be interested in seeing a... I mean, I just think she'd tell you the way she sees it.
She's not going to tell you what... And she's been here for a good while?
She's been here a long time.
Good.
And she may not be somebody who you would dig to.
Well, she hasn't spiked me, because she hasn't been suggesting quite a while.
Nobody else... I'm surprised, for all that they did.
I'd like to go where the wild goose goes, where the stories are.
Yeah.
I think she's got some great stories.
Another person who's been here a very long time is Larry Kenney.
He is?
K-E-N-N-E-Y.
He's a manuscript editor who's been here for thirty years or so.
I was seeing Mary at eleven.
Oh, Mary and Ash.
Oh, wonderful.
Now, she's been here a good while, too.
She's no longer here.
Oh, she's no longer here.
She's coming in.
If it's Mary and Ash.
It is Mary and Ash.
Yeah, no, she was gone well before I came.
I'm just thinking of people who are here who've been here for a very long time.
Another one, oh, Jim Johnson.
Jim Johnson.
Yeah, he's a book.
A book designer, and he's also been here 25 years or something.
I talked to Nancy yesterday.
Nancy a bit of it?
Yeah.
She's great.
Yeah, she is.
And design is very important.
Oh, yeah.
People, you know, there are days that the stereotypical university press book is just a boring,
blue cloth book with even a dust jacket that you spend $150 more for a library and nobody ever reads it.
That's not the case anymore.
Right, right.
Yeah, Nancy did that great Benjamin Franklin.
Oh, yeah.
She's right under that.
I love that.
Wonderful book.
I'm just thinking of people who are a little bit off, you know, off there.
Oh, that's good.
I'll send you an email if you think of any other people that might be good for me.
Marion's coming in in about 25 minutes.
I have to run out and get some quarters for my
I have quarters if you need some.
Yeah, I keep them because my daughter takes the bus.
Are you sure?
Yeah, sure.
Save me a trip to that.
Yeah, no, somebody died, so I got in the parking lot out here.
If you had $2 worth, I'd be just left.
I've got them probably.
That'll take me through the day.
That'd be great.
I don't have one left, so I think more will give me.
When I took this job, I asked John Ryden how I would park.
He didn't want to tell me.
He said, oh, just park at the meter for now.
Little did I know I'd be parking at the meter forever.
No.
Actually, someone, basically, someone died and I got in a lot.
Oh, you're in a lot.
Good for you.
Thank you.
This is terrific.
Last time I was here, I bought a roll.
I went over to the bank and I just keep the roll in the car, you know.
I'm going to shut this off.
I'm going to go...